# Osteoporosis-Detection-on-Hips-X-Ray-Dataset-using-InceptionNet-ResNet-50-YOLOv7-and-YOLOv8
Osteoporosis is a disease of bone characterized by low bone mineral density (BMD) and increased risk of fracture. The DEXA or DXA (Dual-Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry) scan is one of the modern methods used for osteoporosis detection and diagnosis and it is currently the benchmark for accurate osteoporosis detection. The method's only drawback is that it is expensive and unaffordable for those from lower socioeconomic strata. Thus, by conducting this study, the authors propose the use of deep learning techniques on X-Ray images which may be used as an alternative to DEXA. This repo is the extension of the study conducted for the Research Paper - **A Comparative Analysis of Deep Learning Models and Conventional Approaches for Osteoporosis Detection in Hip X-Ray Images**, which summarizes and compares four deep learning algorithms employed for the same – ResNet-50, Inception Net, YOLOv7, and Ultralytics YOLO v8 models on an X-Ray dataset of hips consisting of 117 images after augmentation.

This repo employs deep learning algorithms to detect osteoporosis using X-ray modalities to find obscure, possibly invisible aspects in an X-ray. On the hips X-ray dataset, this study applies four deep learning models (ResNet-50, InceptionNet, YOLO v7, and Ultralytics YOLO v8). Out of the four algorithms, the best accuracy was obtained for the YOLO v8 model (98.8 mAP). This repo includes Osteoporosis detection using AI and Deep Learning algorithms for accurate diagnosis and prediction of osteoporosis.

You can find the research paper here - https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10235129
